Inheritance wallet - Part 1 (#1081)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction.md

---
layout: guide
title: Use case & scope
description: An in-depth UX reference design for a multi-key bitcoin wallet with inheritance features designed for families.
nav_order: 1
parent: Inheritance wallet
permalink: /guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/
main_classes: -no-top-padding
image_base: /assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/
images_introduction:
    - file: 
      alt: 
      caption: 

---

<!--

Editor's notes

This page covers ....  

Illustration sources

https://www.figma.com/file/h5GP5v5dYfpXXfEUXf6nvC/Family-inheritance-wallet?type=design&node-id=5542%3A2119&mode=design&t=sBtcvrDzb8MPtWaK-1

-->

# Use case & scope 
{: .no_toc }

> Our target audience are families that are familiar with bitcoin and hold the majority of their net worth in bitcoin. They want to take advantage of the security assurances of multi-key wallets and are comfortable with using more advanced technical features and human processes for inheritance planning.  

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. I formulated it slightly differently.

- **A 2-of-3 primary key set for normal spending**. Since it is a savings wallet, Alice and Bob will spend only very infrequently.
- **A 1-of-3 recovery key set** in case something very bad happens while they are still alive and need to recover their funds. This key set uses the same keys as the primary one.
- **A dedicated 2-of-3 inheritance key set**, which is unlocked 6 months after the recovery key set was unlocked and has not been used. Christina and David will each hold one of the inheritance keys. Edward will hold the third key to assist the children, if necessary.

The image below shows in more detail, how the wallet will work under the hood. 

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/wallet-overview.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/wallet-overview@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/wallet-overview-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/wallet-overview-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = "An illustration showing the timeline of the key sets."
   width = 1600
   height = 800
%}

> Note that this configuration could be expanded almost at will by the users. But with each additional layer of logic comes additional complexity in terms of backup and maintainability. While the decision will ultimately be up to users of your application. But you will need to make sure that your application guides and educates them towards choosing and maintaining a setup that is secure enough and sustainable over the long term. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this configuration can be expanded by users, every expansion would require an additional layer of complexity. The complexity would enter in terms of backup and maintenance.  Ensuring that the application guides and educates them towards a secure and sustainable setup is essential. 
```

Author: Much better than my initial text. Thanks!

## Wallet configuration
Based on their initial requirements, Alice and Bob decided on having two key sets. One primary key set that they will use in times of normal operations. In addition, they want to create an inheritance key set that unlocks after a certain time. Their children and Edward will each hold one these keys.  

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/key-scheme.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/key-scheme.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/key-scheme.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/key-scheme.png"
   alt-text = "An illustration showing that Alice and Bob control three keys, while Christina, David and Edward control one key each."
   width = 1600
   height = 800
%}

Below is an overview of what the configuration of the family's savings wallet will look like:

> - **A 2-of-3 primary key set for normal spending**. Since it is a savings wallet, Alice and Bob will spend only very infrequently.

Author: Good question. My plan was to not touch the topic in too much detail. It's already a pretty long page. 

That being said. My idea was that each of them store their own key independently. The third key is stored in a shared bank deposit box.

> - **A 2-of-3 primary key set for normal spending**. Since it is a savings wallet, Alice and Bob will spend only very infrequently.

Author: Agree. But this is a decision that every family will have to take on their own, based on their specific situation. Plus, the recovery path even lowers the quorum after 6 months. 

Of course, if the relationship between the parents is not a very good one, they might go a different route. They probably would not have a shared savings wallet in the first place, but keep their savings separate, just like before. They also would not have a recovery path set up.

It all comes down to personal choice and what the perceived risk factors are for the users. In this case, the main risk is perceived as self-inflicted loss. The goal of the reference design is to describe the UX.

That being said, it could be a good idea to create a child page under the [Bitcoin backups](https://bitcoin.design/guide/how-it-works/backups/) page, where we could describe a couple of scenarios in more detail 🤔.

- **A timelocked recovery path** in case something very bad happens while they are still alive and need to recover their funds. The recovery path uses the same keys as the primary key set, but requires only one signature to spend.
- **A dedicated 2-of-3 inheritance key set**, which is unlocked 6 months after the recovery key set was unlocked and has not been used. Christina and David will each hold one of the inheritance keys. Edward will hold the third key to assist the children, if necessary.

The image below illustrates how the wallet will work under the hood.

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/wallet-overview.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/wallet-overview@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/wallet-overview-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/wallet-overview-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = "An illustration showing the timeline of the key sets."
   width = 1600
   height = 800
%}

> Note that this configuration could be expanded almost at will by the users. But with each additional layer of logic comes additional complexity in terms of backup and maintainability. The decision will ultimately be up to users of your application. But you will need to make sure that your application guides and educates them towards choosing and maintaining a setup that is both, secure enough and sustainable over the long term. 

Author: I changed the the text and moved it under a new "Design considerations" section, to make it more distinct.

## Application scope
Think about the scope of your application and how to incorporate supporting features beyond just letting users create such an advanced wallet and using it to receive and send transactions. Consider features that help users to:

- Choose an adequate setup.
- Test or simulate that the wallet and its rules work as intended.
- Involve heirs early on to make them aware and comfortable with the setup. This could contain elements of gamification or educational apps and services, for example. 
- Perform regular key checks for all keys. 
- Make changes to the setup over time AND make sure that its documentation is updated and distributed accordingly.
- Provide a way to migrate to a different wallet application, in case your project is abandoned or shut down.

> Such supporting features can be implemented on the application layer and don't necessarily need to touch the bitcoin protocol.

Author: Removed the second part of the sentence, as it was superfluous.
